# [Geo-Strategy #1: Iran's Strategy Matrix](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xEEpOxqdU5E)

On april 1st 2025 Israel struck Iranian embassy in Damask, Syria, killing 2 commanders. This is considered to be an act of war because embassy is a country’s territory.

Assasination of general Qasem Soleimani by americans in 2020 by a drone strike.

Americans and israelis have military dominance over Iran. They have technology. A jet went from Israel and struck the iranian embassy, even though canadian one is right next to it. But they stroke without affecting anything else. They have intelligence, because they knew that the commanders would be there at that time.

Iranians responded with operation “True Promise”. 185 drones, 36 cruise missiles and 110 surface-to-surface missiles hit Israel. 90% of them were intercepted and israelis say that proves that the Iron Dome is amazing, Iran can not touch them. Iranians said that they designed the attack to be harmless. Who’s in the right?

Iranians have to be more strategic in their response, because their opponents have a military dominance. The thing is that Iran and Israel are commited to a war. USA and Israel will invade Iran but will not win.

2002 Millenium Challenge showed that. 2 teams USA and Iran were put against each other in a simulation. Iran used asymmetrical warfare and won.

Let’s say John and Jack are enemies and are out to kill each other. John has armor and a rifle. Jack has nothing. In a conventional warfare John wins every time. But, for example, Jack lives in a forest and he knows the forest. If John attacks Jack in the forest it’s possible for Jack to win, because he can set traps. Jack needs to be much more strategic. As long as you can define the terms of engagement, control how the war is fought – you win. (It is possible that the Russia-Ukraine war has as one of the goals this: test out the drone warfare and improve response capabilities to the iranian drones?)

USA has aircraft carriers. In conventional warfare Iran sends its entire navy against one aircraft carrier loses. In asymmetrical warfare they send drone swarms. In millenium challenge they had suicide boats charging aircraft carriers. If there is a lot of them you can’t stop all. And if one hits the boat - it sinks. In asymmetrical warfare you have to control how much resources you use. Average cost of US aircraft carrier is 13 billion USD, high-end cost of 10000 fake drones + 1000 real drones is half a billion USD. This is why Iran would win a war. Calculate how much True Promise cost to iranians and to israelis to defend.

If iranians use this strategy shouldn’t israelis and american respond the same? They won’t. In the first test of millenium challenge Iran won, so USA in the second test said it’s cheating and won. This shows that empires are inflexible, “hubris”. Empires don’t admit failures and faults.

Before the invasion Iran needs needs to do 4 things to prevail. Iran strategy matrix:

1. Unite the population.
2. Build alliances.
3. Win global opinion.
4. Weaken the enemy.

You win the war depending on how much the population is willing to defend. And most iranians will resist.

1) 1953 coup. 1909 british discovered oil in Persia, created British Petroleum. Persia would only get 16% of profits. For decades they tried to renegotiated. 1953 suggested 50/50, UK and US launched a coup and installed their government (the shah). 1979 was overthrown. So if US and UK will be violent towards the population they will resist.

2) Axis of resistance. Russia, China. Russia would state that US is not allowed to use WMDs, bioweapons, other stuff. China needs iranian oil.

3) Gaza.

4) NATO, Saudi Arabia, Israel, etc. Iran needs to create conflict inside by internal dissent. Or between USA and NATO.

True Promise showed to the population that Iran can strike back succesfully; to Russia, China and allies that they are going to fight; win global opinion by saying that the strike was designed to not cause any casualties; this weakens the enemy because Israel wanted to show strong response because they have a policy of disproportionality but were stopped by US, which puts conflict between Israel and US.

If USA invades Iran it will collapse: 1) overextension; 2) debt; 3) civil unrest.
