# [Geo-Strategy#2: Christian Zionism and the Middle East Conflict](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lkKrZq4YdqY)

Reasons US will invade Iran: pressure from Israel and Saudi Arabia, necessity to maintain empire, Israel lobby.

Brief story of Jesus Christ and of eventual second coming. Christianity became the empire faith. Catholic church became center of power after the destruction of the western empire. Reformation started to oppose church’s authority as a sole source of truth of the Bible. Religious wars in England king vs dissenters. King sends dissenters to America. The colonies are founded as a religious state based on the Bible. From the outside it’s a secular multicultural society but internally is a religious state dedicated to achiving kingdom of God on Earth.

Why is God not coming back? The Bible has prophecies about how and why Jesus will return:
1. Must be a nation called Israel.
2. It must have a temple.
3. Antichrist will come.
4. He will launch a war when all the nations will try to destroy Israel.
5. Jesus comes back, crushes Antichrist and Satan. The Judgement Day. Kingdom of Heaven.

So there is a group of people that believes these are the things we need to do. Which is satanic, because if you think it’s a plan and try to execute it then you try to manipulate God. These ones encourage palestinian-israeli conflict, want a war between Israel and Iran because it’s a part of the prophecy. 1948 Israel was created as a nation.

After reformation Christian Zionism emerged. It’s a belief that as a christian you must support jews to return to Israel. They believe God promised Israel to the jews. So they use jews as a nation as a tool to force the return of Christ.

Zionism is a belief among a group of jews that they are chosen people of God and Israel is promised to them. That’s why they need to return to Israel. Christian Zionists supported Zionism and made it thrive (?). Before that jews thought of themselves as a religion, not a nationality. The problem was that not a lot of jews were going to Levant. That’s when the holocaust happened and they came.

Christian Zionists are in control of US and use jews to advance the prophecy, Israel as a nation thinks that it can use Christian Zionists to advance their influence in the Middle East. US thinks it has a religious responsibility to protect Israel.
