# [Geo-Strategy #4: Saudi Arabia's Trump Card Against Iran
](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LctUcVqhhns)

3rd and final force driving conflict in Middle East.

Iran's main enemy in middle east is Saudi Arabia.

1979 islamic revolution. Before the concensus in Middle East was that religion and politics are separated. Iranian demands: no king, US must not interfere in domestic politics (shah was US appointed), government should be focused on islamic law. 98% voted to install islamic republic.

November 1979 600 muslims tried to capture Mecca and demanded the same things Iran demanded. From that day on Iran and Saudi Arabia are enemies because they have their own visions of islam in Middle East.

SA is sunni, Iran is shia. In 610 Muhammed had a revelation to found islam. When he died there was a problem of succession. Shia believe that only people of his bloodline can be a leader of the religion. Sunni say that anyone who proves themselves can be.

SA consideres itself home of islam because has 2 holy sites. Iran argues that because they are ruled by a king and protected by americans they are heretics.

## Points of conflict

### Religion

SA has wahhabism since 1744. 1930 oil was discovered. More wealthy and tried to become more modern. Conflict with wahhabists. SA tried to export wahhabism, Afghanistan is a product. And Iran exports shia.

### Economy

SA has oil and no taxes, Iran oil and industry, education, science.

SA sometimes halts oil production to boost oil price. Iran on the contrary sells as much as possible.

### Geopolitics

After Iraq-Iran war Iran took a stance of agressively distracting US and Israel. For example in Israel HAMAS & Hesbolla which are both supported by Iran.

SA needs to control shipping lanes for oil sales.

---

1. 2003 US invaded Iraq and destroyed it. Iran came in and tried to convert it, 2/3 population shia. SA did the same 1/3 sunni. Civil war after that. SA could support ISIS because ISIS hates Iran. Iraq as a result was Iran victory.

2. Syria. SA, US, Israel supported rebels. Iran, Russia supported Assad. Over time rebellion was crushed.

3. 2016 Yemen. Houthi rebellion, shia villagers in mountains, tried overthrowing the government. SA invaded Yemen to counter that with coalition of 30 nations. Operation "Decisive Storm", strategy shock and awe. This didn't work because houthis were in the mountains, bombs and rockets didn't do much except kill civilians; oil fields and ports in SA are being blown up with cheap drones. SA doesn't have water, relies on desalination plants which are on the coast which are in vicinity of houthi attacks.

From these wars SA learned that they need to defeat Iran to counter all the enemies. Their economy is vulnerable to attacks. They need US to fight Iran for them.

---

2001 9/11 happened, 15/19 highjackers were citizens of SA. So US wasn't happy with SA from the start. Also they tried to influence US to stop 2003 Iraq war but couldn't. 2008 Obama didn't want to deal with Middle East and move to counter China. 2015 Iran nuclear deal to relieve tensions.

2017 SA Muhammed bin Salman. Vision 2030. Became friends with Donald Trump as opportunity to reset with US. Also with Jared Kushner, son-in-law, Trump's Middle East advisor. Abraham accords which is peace between Israel and arabs to unite against Iran. 2018 assasination of Jamal Khashoggi. Trump protected the prince. 2020 Trump ordered assasination of Qasem Soleimani, 2nd most powerful in Iran, strategist of 3 wars mentioned earlier.
