# [Geo-Strategy #9: Putin's War for the Soul of Russia
](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AEPSUC-UQ5k&t=1220s)

Societal structure must give structure, meaning and purpose or the society is artificial/non-existant.
War, religion, civilization are what can be used to give the society structure.

Industrial revolution - 1920 money in center of society. Capitalist thesis.

Problems:

1. Money is all consuming. It will take everything it needs to create more money.
2. Consolidation. Easiest way to multiply money is consolidating it together.
3. Dehumanization. Your value as a person is determined by your capital.

Communist antithesis - worker in center of society.

Francis Fukuyama "The End of History and The Last Man". Consumerism is the best and final form of societal structure. Used Friedrich Hegel's dialectism.

Thesis (capitalism) vs antithesis (communism) => synthesis (liberal democracy).

1940-1980 liberal democracy synthesis. Workers had the best lives. Government promised that you will have a job.

Problem - elites do not want egalitarianism.

Thesis (liberal democracy) vs antithesis (elitism) => synthesis (consumerism).

Government promises low prices and wide selection of wares.

1980 Reagan and Margaret Thatcher began the shift to consumerism.

Consumer creates a competion for prestige. So if one has a house, other needs a bigger one, and so on. In the end everyone is in debt &/or broke and hates each other. Now people can not organize and act together. Economic logic: see the world only through capital.

## Consumerism is perfection of slavery

Perfection because slaves rebel. But consumer doesn't know he is a slave and loves it. That's why Francis Fukuyama said it's the end of history. Because it achives what elites want and makes population unable to rebel.

## New thesis

Thesis (consumerism) vs antithesis (warrior) => synthesis (continous war).

Russia-Ukraine war. Russia is rejuvenated, economy grows, people are more united.

Next years more european countries will adapt this synthesis to fight against Russia.

Eventually Putin will die and society will fall apart because warrior society needs a leader. And warriors will start fighting against each other.
